2078 docs for approx functions (#2082)
apache/arrow-datafusion: docs/source/user-guide/sql/aggregate_functions.md

  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

# Aggregate Functions

Aggregate functions operate on a set of values to compute a single result. Please refer to [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-aggregate.html) for usage of standard SQL functions.

## General

- min
- max
- count
- avg
- sum
- array_agg

## Statistical

- var / var_samp / var_pop
- stddev / stddev_samp / stddev_pop
- covar / covar_samp / covar_pop
- corr

## Approximate

> ### approx_distinct

Reviewer: 👍

Author: thank you for your kindly review as well 😄

`approx_distinct(x) -> uint64` returns the approximate number (HyperLogLog) of distinct input values

### approx_median

`approx_median(x) -> x` returns the approximate median of input values. it is an alias of `approx_percentile_cont(x, 0.5)`.

### approx_percentile_cont

`approx_percentile_cont(x, p) -> x` return the approximate percentile (TDigest) of input values, where `p` is a float64 between 0 and 1 (inclusive).

> it supports raw data as input and build Tdigest sketches during query time.
> 
> it is approximately equal to `approx_percentile_cont_with_weight(x, 1, p)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports raw data as input and build Tdigest sketches during query time, and is approximately equal to `approx_percentile_cont_with_weight(x, 1, p)`.
```

### approx_percentile_cont_with_weight

> `approx_percentile_cont_with_weight(x, w, p) -> x` return the approximate percentile (TDigest) of input values with weight, where `w` is weight column expression and `p` is a float64 between 0 and 1 (inclusive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`approx_percentile_cont_with_weight(x, w, p) -> x` returns the approximate percentile (TDigest) of input values with weight, where `w` is weight column expression and `p` is a float64 between 0 and 1 (inclusive).
```

> it supports raw data as input or pre-aggregated TDigest sketches, then build or merge Tdigest sketches during query time. TDigest sketches are a list of centroid `(x, w)`, where `x` stands for mean and `w` stands for weight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports raw data as input or pre-aggregated TDigest sketches, then builds or merges Tdigest sketches during query time. TDigest sketches are a list of centroid `(x, w)`, where `x` stands for mean and `w` stands for weight.
```

> it is suitable for low latency OLAP system where streaming compute engine (e.g. Spark Streaming/Flink) pre-aggregate data to a data store, then query by Datafusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is suitable for low latency OLAP system where a streaming compute engine (e.g. Spark Streaming/Flink) pre-aggregates data to a data store, then queries using Datafusion.
```

# Aggregate Functions

Aggregate functions operate on a set of values to compute a single result.

## General

> ### min

Reviewer: I think writing nice / proper documentation for SQL is a large undertaking.

For standard SQL functions, perhaps we can simply link to pre-existing documentation, such as: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-aggregate.html and focus DataFusion documentation on what is different / specific to datafusion (such as`approx_percentile_cont`, `approx_median` and `approx_percentile_cont_with_weight`)?

Author: good point, I add the PostgreSQL link and only list what we support for General and Statistical functions. Approximate functions keep same detail documentations

[bcba321](https://github.com/apache/arrow-datafusion/pull/2082/commits/bcba321e0706f6ab1369b4ac730d13930f06bc6c)

### array_agg
`array_agg(x) -> array<x>` returns an array created from the input values.

## Approximate

### approx_distinct
`approx_distinct(x) -> uint64` returns the approximate number (HyperLogLog) of distinct input values

### approx_median
`approx_median(x) -> x` returns the approximate median of input values.

it is same as `approx_percentile_cont(x, 0.5)`.

### approx_percentile_cont
`approx_percentile_cont(x, p) -> x` return the approximate percentile (TDigest) of input values, where `p` is a float64 between 0 and 1 (inclusive).

it supports raw data as input and build Tdigest sketches during query time.

### approx_percentile_cont_with_weight
`approx_percentile_cont_with_weight(x, w, p) -> x` return the approximate percentile (TDigest) of input values with weight, where `w` is weight column expression and `p` is a float64 between 0 and 1 (inclusive).

it supports raw data as input or pre-aggregated TDigest sketches (mean and weight), then build and merge Tdigest sketches during query time.
it is suitable for low latency query OLAP system where `Spark Streaming/Flink` pre-aggregate data to a data store, then query by Datafusion.

> ## Statistical

Reviewer 2: WIP?

Author: yes, user guide of statistical aggregate functions is still wip.
let me change PR to draft first
